.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH SP 3 "April 2002" Spread "User Manuals"
.SH "NAME"
libsp \- Spread Group Communication Client Library
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The Spread 
.B libsp
library implements the client SP interface to the Spread
group communication or multicast message bus system.
.SH "DATA STRUCTURES"
.SH "HEADER FILES"
.I sp.h
is the main header and includes necessary defines and types. It also 
includes the other header files sp_events.h and sp_func.h.

.I sp_events.h
declares the types and functions that make up the E Event-management 
library.

.I sp_func.h
declares the functions of the SP interface. Since sp.h includes this you
should not include this directly.
.SH "FILES"
No files are required for client applications using the SP library.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The library will not output any debugging information except in fatal errors.
The 
.B SP_error(3)
function can be used to print an informative error message when SP functions
return an error code.
.SH "BUGS"
None currently known. Library is only thread-safe if the program
is linked with libtsp.a not libsp.a.  The non-thread-safe library is
provided for those who are writing single-threaded applications and do not
want to pay the minimal performance penalty for locking.
.SH AUTHOR
Yair Amir <yairamir@cnds.jhu.edu>
.PP
Jonathan Stanton <jonathan@cnds.jhu.edu>
.PP
Spread Project <spread@spread.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR spread (1)
.BR SP_connect (3)
.BR SP_disconnect (3)
.BR SP_equal_group_ids (3)
.BR SP_error (3)
.BR SP_join (3)
.BR SP_leave (3)
.BR SP_multicast (3)
.BR SP_scat_multicast (3)
.BR SP_multigroup_multicast (3)
.BR SP_multigroup_scat_multicast (3)
.BR SP_poll (3)
.BR SP_receive (3)
.BR SP_scat_receive (3)
