.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH SP_RECEIVE 3 "September 2002" Spread "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
SP_receive, SP_scat_receive \- Receive message from Spread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sp.h>
.sp
.BI "int SP_receive( mailbox " mbox ", service *" service_type ", char " sender "[MAX_GROUP_NAME], int " max_groups ", int *" num_groups ", char " groups "[][MAX_GROUP_NAME], int16 *" mess_type ", int *" endian_mismatch ", int " max_mess_len ", char *" mess );
.sp
.BI "int SP_scat_receive( mailbox " mbox ", service *" service_type ", char " sender "[MAX_GROUP_NAME], int " max_groups ", int *" num_groups ", char " groups "[][MAX_GROUP_NAME], int16 *" mess_type ", int *" endian_mismatch ", scatter *" scat_mess );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B SP_receive
is the general purpose receive function for the
toolkit.  This receives not only data messages but also membership
messages for the connection.  Messages for all groups joined on
this connection will arrive to the same mailbox so a call to 
.B SP_receive
will get a single 'message' from any one of the 
groups. After the receive completes a number of fields are set to 
values indicating meta information about the message (such as groups,
mess_type, endianness, type, etc).

This function is the most complex used in Spread because it is the 
only way for the system to return information to the application. The
meaning of many of the fields changes depending on whether the message
is a data message or a membership message.

The 
.B SP_receive 
function will block if no messages are available.

The
.I mbox
gives which connection to receive a message on.
.I Service_type
is a pointer to a variable of type 'service' which will be set 
to the message type of the message just received.  This
will be either a REG_MESSAGE or MEMBERSHIP_MESS, and the specific type.
The variable that service_type points to is also an input parameter and should be set
to either 0, for normal semantics,  or DROP_RECV (a defined constant) if you want to
receive the 'non-reliable' semantics that will truncate messages if the
provided buffers for message data and group lists are too small. More information
about DROP_RECV semantics are provided later in this man page.

The rest of the parameters differ in meaning depending on the 
.I service_type. 
If the
.I service_type
is a REG_MESSAGE (i.e. data message) then:

The
.I sender
is a pointer to an array of characters of at least MAX_GROUP_NAME size.  
This will be set to the name of the sending connection(its private group name).

The 
.I max_groups
is the maximum number of groups you have allocated space for in 
the 'groups' array passed to the receive function.

.I Num_groups
is a pointer to an int which will be set to the number of groups 
set in the 'groups' array.

The 
.I groups
array holds upto
.I max_groups
group names, each of which is a string of at most MAX_GROUP_NAME characters. All
of the groups which are receiving this message will be listed here, unless the array
is too small and then as many as can fit will be listed and the 
.I num_groups
value will be set to be negative. For example, if your groups array could store 5 
group names, but a message for 7 groups arrived, the first five group names would
appear in the
.I groups
array and  
.I num_groups
would be set to \-7.

The 
.I mess_type
field will be set to the message type field the application sent with the 
original message, this is only a short int (16bits). This value is already
endian corrected before the application receives it.

.I Endian_mismatch
will be set to true (1) if the endianness of the sending machine 
differs from that of this receiving machine. If the 
.B BUFFER_TOO_SHORT 
error is returned then the endian_mismatch field will be set to the size of 
the incoming message as a negative value. So if the message requires 300 bytes
of buffer space and only 200 bytes was provided in the 
.I mess 
buffer, 
.I endian_mismatch 
will be set to \-300.

The actual message body being received will be passed into the buffer given by
.I mess
which is at least 
.I max_mess_len 
bytes in size. If the message being received is larger then this buffer the default
behaivor will be to return a 
.B BUFFER_TOO_SHORT 
error and provide the required length in the 
.I endian_mismatch 
field. If the DROP_RECV flag was passed in the 
.I service_type
field, then as much data as possible will be returned and the extra
data will be discarded by the system and the return value of 
.B SP_receive
will indictate an error.
If the
.B SP_scat_receive
form is used then instead of the
.I mess
buffer and length fields, a single 
.I scat_mess
scatter structure should be passed to receive filled in with whatever buffers
you wish to receive into and their lengths. These buffers must be valid memory areas.
They will be filled in by the receive call in the order they are listed.

If this is a MEMB_MESSAGE (i.e. membership message) and it 
specifically is a TRANS_MESS, then:

The 
.I sender
char array will be set to the name of the group for which the membership change is occuring.

The 
.I max_groups
and 
.I max_mess_len
fields are not used and the
.I num_groups
is 0 and 
.I groups
since there are no normal groups for a transitional membership, the sender field is used instead. 
The 
.I mess_type
field is set to -1. The
.I endian_mismatch
field will be zero since the transitional does not have any endian issues. The
.I mess
field will be left empty.
So in essence the only information you get is the 
.I sender
field is 
set to the group name which received a transitional membership change. The importance
of the TRANS_MEMB_MESS is that it tells the application that all messages received
after it and before the REG_MEMB_MESS for the same group are 'clean up' messages to
put the messages in a consistant state before actually changing memberships.  For more
explanations of this please see other documentation and research papers.

If This is a MEMB_MESSAGE (i.e. membership message) and it 
specifically is a REG_MEMB_MESS, then:

The 
.I sender
char array will be set to the name of the group for which the membership change is occuring.

The 
.I max_groups
and
.I max_mess_len
fields have the same meaning as before, and the 
.I mess_type
field will be set to the index of this process in the array of group members. The
.I endian_mismatch
field will again be set to 0 since there are no endian issues with regular memberships.

The
.I groups
array and
.I mess
body are used to provide two kinds of membership information about the change that just
occured in this group.  The 
.I num_groups
field will be set to the number of members in the group in the 
.B new
membership (i.e. after the change occured). Correspondingly the 
.I groups
array will be set to the private group names of all members of this group
in the 
.B new
membership.  This list of names is always in the same order at all receipients
and thus can be used to deterministically pick a group representative if
one is needed by the application.

The second set of information is stored in the message body and provides a list
of all the private group names of those processes which came with your process
from the old group membership into this new membership. The data buffer will include
the following fields:

.RS
.TP
.B group_id;
.br
.TP
.B int num_vs_members;
.br
.TP
.B char vs_set[][MAX_GROUP_NAME];
.RE

The location of the beginning of each field is provided by the accessor functions
.B SP_get_gid_offset_memb_mess,
.B SP_get_num_vs_offset_memb_mess, and
.B SP_get_vs_set_offset_memb_mess.
Each accessor function gives the byte offset in the message body of the corresponding
field. 

The vs_set array will have num_vs_members group names, each of which is
a fixed length string.  The content of the vs_set array is dependent 
upon the type of the membership change:

.RS
.TP 0.8i
.B CAUSED_BY_JOIN:
Vs_set contains the private group of the joining process.
.TP
.B CAUSED_BY_LEAVE:
Vs_set contains the private group of the leaving process.
.TP
.B CAUSED_BY_DISCONNECT:
Vs_set contains the private group of the disconnecting process.
.TP
.B CAUSED_BY_NETWORK:
Vs_set contains the group names of the members of the new membership who came 
with 
.B me
(the current process) to the new membership. Of course, all 
.B new 
members can be determined by comparing it with the groups parameter of
the SP_receive call.
.RE

If this is a MEMB_MESSAGE (i.e. membership message) and it is
.B neither
a REG_MEMB_MESS or a TRANS_MEMB_MESS, then it represents exactly the 
situtation where the member receiving this message has left a group and
this is notification that the leave has occured, thus it is sometimes called 
a 
.B self-leave
message.  The simplest test for this is if a message is CAUSED_BY_LEAVE and 
REG_MEMB_MESS is FALSE then it is a 
.B self-leave
message.  TRANS_MEMB_MESS never have a CAUSED_BY_ type because they only serve
to signal upto where SAFE delivery and AGREED delivery (with no holes) is guaranteed
in the complete 
.B old
group membership.

The other members of the group this member just left will receive a normal TRANS_MEMB_MESS, 
REG_MEMB_MESS pair as described above showing the membership change.

The fields of SP_receive in this case will be as follows:

The 
.I sender
char array will be set to the name of the group for which the membership change is occuring.

The 
.I max_groups
and
.I max_mess_len
fields have the same meaning as before, and the 
.I mess_type
and 
.I endian_mismatch
fields will again be set to 0.

The
.I groups
array and
.I mess
body are used to provide two kinds of membership information about the change that just
occured in this group.  The 
.I num_groups
field will be set to 0 and the 
.I groups
array will be empty, since this member is no longer part of the group and thus has
no knowledge of it. The
.I mess
body will also be empty. 

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Returns the size of the message received 
on success or one of the following errors ( < 0 ):
.TP 0.8i
.B ILLEGAL_SESSION
The 
.I mbox
given to receive on was illegal.
.TP
.B ILLEGAL_MESSAGE
The message had an illegal structure, like a scatter not filled out correctly.
.TP
.B CONNECTION_CLOSED
During communication to receive the message communication errors occured
and the receive could not be completed.
.TP
.B GROUPS_TOO_SHORT
If the 
.I groups
array is too short to hold the entire list of groups this message was sent to 
then this error is returned and the 
.I num_groups 
field will be set to the negative of the number of groups needed.
.TP
.B BUFFER_TOO_SHORT
If the message body buffer
.I mess
is too short to hold the message being received then this error is returned and the 
.I endian_mismatch 
field is set to the negative value of the required buffer length.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH AUTHOR
Yair Amir <yairamir@cnds.jhu.edu>
.br
Jonathan Stanton <jonathan@cnds.jhu.edu>
.br
Commedia Project <commedia@cnds.jhu.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libsp (3)

